.TH BOLUKS 1
.SH NAME
boluks - A simple program for luks and veracrypt container management.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B boluks
[\fIoption\fR]... \fIoperation\fR [\fIargs\fR]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
boluks is a command line program to ease the flow one might be used to if they
frequently use cryptsetup to mount or unmount volumes. Because the underlying
workflow is centered around cryptsetup, this utility can handle entire drives
as well as regular files.
.sp
This tool will automatically detect the appropriate name and mount point for
any new volumes you open. All devices are mapped in /dev/mapper, and luks
volumes will be mounted in \fI/mnt/luksvol*\fR, while veracrypt volumes will be
mounted in \fI/media/veracrypt*\fR . This is to remain compatible with the
official veracrypt program distributed by her developers.
.sp
Map numbers are chosen naively. boluks will count from 1 to 255 until a
filename is available in /dev/mapper. eg. /dev/mapper/luksvol1 will be given
to the first luks volume that is mounted. Numberings will become available
again after the respective volume(s) are unmounted.
.sp
This program is designed to be simple - not flexible. You cannot choose custom
mount points, for example. It is a simple wrapper around the workflow the
developer found himself most often performing - sequential initialization,
mount, and unmount operations. There are no configuration files to keep track
of, and the options are limited so that they are memorable.
.SH OPERATIONS
.sp
You may specify one operation.
.sp
.TP
.BI "init " "device"
Format an existing file as a luks volume. \fIdevice\fR can be a regular file,
or point to a drive's partition.
.TP
.BI "open " "device"
Map and mount an encrypted container. Luks volumes are mounted to
\fI/mnt/luksvol*\fR, and veracrypt volumes are mounted to
\fI/media/veracrypt*\fR.
.TP
\fBclose\fR [\fInum\fR]...
Close the numbered volumes. If num is not provided, then boluks will attempt
to close all volumes.
.RE
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -v, --veracrypt
Use when targeting a veracrypt volume. Only applicable for \fBopen\fR and
\fBclose\fR.
.TP
.BI "-f " "fstype"
Choose the type of filesystem to use when initializing a new volume. This
option is used to select the correct mkfs.<type> program, so make sure the
respective program is valid on your system.
.TP
.B "-V, --version"
Print the version of boluks.
.TP
.B "-h, --help"
Print the help message.
.SH AUTHOR
boluks was developed by Bo Cimino <ciminobo@protonmail.com>.
.SH FAQ
.sp
.B boluks sounds kind of like...?
.sp
bluks sounded better at first, but I get the feeling some alien race
out there already has that word, and perhaps it is much more embarassing.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © 2019 Bo Cimino. License GPLv3+: GNU
GPL version 3 or later <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
.sp
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it under
the terms of the above license. There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent
permitted by law.
